Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tunisie, we have a very distinguished guest with us today
about whom you have heard much, and I know that all of you admire him as I do.
During the time that I served on the Armed Services Committee of the Senate and on the Senate
Defense Appropriations Committee, I've gotten to know and hear a great deal.
I know this man well, and here is I.V.O. is about space and research and the air command
of our great nation.
Our guest today is General Bernard A. Sriever, who is head of the Air Force Systems Command.
We'd like to have you with us, Danny B.
Let me say, by way of the introduction of General Sriever was born in Brim and Germany
that he immigrated to the United States in 1917, grew up in Texas where I graduated from
Texas A&M.
He served seven campaigns with the 19th bomber group in the Southwest Pacific in World War
II, and through a series of top advancements and assignments, he is now the commander of
the Vital Research and Development Program of our Air Force.
General Sriever, tell us just what is the Air Force Systems Command and what does it
do?
Well, let's say, very large organization.
We have some 75,000 people.
We're responsible for all of the research and development in the Air Force and specifically
the development of weapons systems such as the Atlas, the Titan, the Minotman, the RS-70,
all the space work that the Air Force does.
And our total budget runs in the neighborhood of seven and a half billion dollars a year,
so you can see we have a very large job to do.
Yes, and it will be even more than at this time goes on, but seven and a half billion
dollars a year is a lot of money.
Other words, you have some missiles and rockets here.
These are things developments that are under your command.
Yes, sir.
I might just…
This is the X-15, which of course is an experimental aircraft that you've seen so much about in
the press in the last year.
How many miles an hour?
Well, that has gone at speeds of about 4,000 miles an hour and at altitudes of 250,000
feet.
We work, actually NASA works with us on this program.
This is the…
Our latest long range ICBM called the Titan II.
This is also used as the booster.
We'll be used as the booster for our dinosaur program in the Air Force.
Also, the booster for the NASA Germany program is that it is the latest man in space program.
It will be the booster for our Sunday Command of the Moon.
No, sir.
It will not be the booster for the man in the Moon program, but it will provide NASA with
the great deal of information that they need in their lunar program, so it ties in directly
with the lunar program.
The block of us here is, of course, the Atlas.
This is our first ICBM, which is operational now.
What do you mean by, you know what you mean by an ICBM, but just to have orders in ICBM
go?
Well, actually, we consider 5,500 miles as the ICBM range, but the Atlas has capabilities
considerably in excess of that.
We fired them ranges up to 9,000 miles.
And your accuracy and hitting response has been very phenomenal.
I understand.
Much better than we had hoped for back in 1954.
I can't give the exact accuracy for security reasons, but it's been very, very good.
And then when we start sending of space communications satellites, which many of us were interested
into, to get news, to voice, to television, and communications to all parts of the world,
one of these may be used to put the communication satellite into orbit.
As a matter of fact, the boosters that were developed by the Air Force are being used
for that purpose, the Thor.
I don't have a model here will be used.
The Atlas has been one of our leading space boosters that's been in the booster use for
the Mercury, for example, but also is planned to be used for these communication satellites.
So I'm going to strive for sometimes back representatives from the Telehoma, Aero, Arnold Engineering
Development Center, and Congressman Evans, Senator Gore, representatives of the state of
Tennessee and the University of Tennessee, out of meeting with you and other people from
the Air Force that are here in Washington about a very important project, and connection
with the Arnold Engineering Development Center at Telehoma.
I want to ask you about that in a minute, but first tell us the importance of this very
important installation of Telehoma.
Well, I'd be glad to because it's been one of my favorite facilities after the war,
actually, planning wise that came under my office in the Pentagon.
And it has really grown up to be what we consider in the Air Force.
The major facility that we have that we can provide tests on the ground for space vehicles.
Every major program that we've had in the Air Force, every ballistic missile program,
every rocket program, every space program, we have run very important tests in the tunnels
that Telehoma, the Arnold Engineering Center.
This same thing holds true for many of the NASA programs as well as the Navy's Polaris,
for example.
So the contribution that the Arnold Center has made to our missile and space programs has
been very, very great indeed.
Well, we are quite proud of the, you know, the arrow as we call it in Tennessee.
As I got it, these tests of all of the missiles and rockets and everything that has to do
about space at the Arnold Engineering Development Center gives you factual information about
what their activity will be when they are actually employed.
Is that correct?
I'm giving you one quick example.
We were having a great deal of difficulty in our discoverer program in the recovery of
the capsule from outer space.
I think you remember that.
I've got a lot of publicity in the paper.
We actually, by conducting wind tunnel tests, that Telehoma discovered what was wrong with
the parachute coming out in its reentry.
And we corrected that and we've had no more difficulty with that part of the program
ever since.
There's just one example of the payoffs that we have gotten and testing that.
Well, we know that time has been going on, that the importance of Telehoma to our air
force, to our space effort has been growing and growing and expanding.
What is the future of our engineering development center will continue to be an even more important
part of our space effort?
Well, I don't think there's any question about that.
It will be.
We are just really scratching the surface in space.
We have tremendous plans for the center.
We are not putting in a, what we call a test configuration of an environmental test facility
at Telehoma.
We hope to move on to a very large-scale space environmental test facility.
We have the power there.
We have the resources in the way of trained people.
It's an ideal place for it.
It's in the planning phases now.
In addition, we are planning with your good people in Tennessee, the University of Tennessee.
Yes, that's what I wanted to ask you to talk about something.
It's a great importance to all of Tennessee.
You're talking now about the Tennessee Space Institute.
That's right.
And I'll tell us about it.
Well, we, of course, in the Air Force field that the technological explosion that the
world has experienced in the past 10 or 15 years and which will continue.
That education will perhaps be the crucial factor in our technological struggle and struggle
as a whole with communism.
We need to particularly develop greater capabilities in this country for advanced,
graduate work.
The institute is, in the planning stages now, I have several documents here that indicate
that we've been very active in this planning and it's to be, the plan is to locate it at
Jason II facilities at the Arnold Center and it would be operated under the University
of Tennessee as a graduate institute.
I think it's a wonderful idea.
We've got tremendous enthusiasm and support from the people in Tennessee so far.
I believe that the present time there is a request for the acquisition of some 400 acres
of land or the buildings and laboratories and whatnot.
That is true and this will be located to write adjacent to the lake there.
It's a beautiful location.
I was at the center just about a month ago and it's a wonderful spot for a school and
with the facilities of the center being available to the school it can really be one of our leading
research centers in the country.
In addition to what the students for masters or doctors degrees with a learning in the
classroom they have practical application and can have practical experience in the center
itself.
That's right.
That's what makes it unique and I think that we can well lead the way here.
As Arnold Sriever as I understand it then we have had several discussions about it.
This is to be a joint effort on the part of the state of Tennessee, the University of
Tennessee and as we all know Dr. Holden, the president of the University and his people
are very interested in cooperative design.
As we all know the Air Force and NASA and Navy and other federal agencies.
That's right.
The center is whereas it's operated by the Air Force.
We not only welcome but we look for work that we can do in support of the Navy, NASA and
the Army and we do support them at great deal now and we will certainly continue to do
so because we look at it as a national resource.
And you need men educated in the field that would receive their instruction there at this
Arnold Engineering Development Center or Tennessee Space Institute as we are going to call
it.
That's right.
We've had several different names but the latest is the Colorado Library at Tennessee Space
Institute.
General Sriever, how soon do you envision with everybody cooperating fully that this
can become a reality because it's a great and unique development as I understand it?
Well I think that we could certainly get started in go beyond the planning and start implementing
doing in other words within the next 12 months and I would say that if everything is pushed
the way it should in my opinion we could certainly get students there within a matter of
a year or two even before we have all the facilities in final form because the attitude
and the desire is there so we can get started I think real soon.
I understand that the Arnold Engineering Development Center has been allocating some of its
funds already out of its own pocket for the purpose of getting at least planning.
Yes, in the next meeting.
In the planning, yes sir.
Our people are very enthusiastic about this and both on the military side and arrow have
been working on this.
Is there any institute of this kind in the United States of the present time or is this
unique or will this be unique?
This would be the first institute of this kind that I know anything about and I'm sure
I'm correct.
So it would be unique but I'm sure there more would follow.
And you would give masters and doctors degrees to the students there and they could not
study for them.
That's right.
Well I want you to know our General's River I'm sure you do already that we in Tennessee
are very interested in this project and everybody is anxious to cooperate with you and with
NASA and we hope it becomes a reality in the near future.
And on behalf of the listeners over this station I want to thank you very much for being
with us today.
That's all until next time.